Next, let's learn about
another kind of network attack
called IP spoofing.
IP spoofing is a network attack
performed when an attacker
changes the source IP of
a data packet to impersonate
an authorized system and
gain access to a network.
In this kind of attack,
the hacker is pretending
to be someone they are
not so they can communicate over
the network with the
target computer and get
past firewall rules that may
prevent outside traffic.
Some common IP spoofing
attacks are on-path attacks,
replay attacks,
and smurf attacks.
Let's discuss these
one at a time.
An on-path attack is
an attack where the malicious
actor places themselves in
the middle of an
authorized connection
and intercepts or alters
the data in transit.
On-path attackers gain access to
the network and put themselves
between two devices,
like a web browser
and a web server.
Then they sniff the packet
information to learn the IP and
MAC addresses to devices
that are communicating
with each other.
After they have
this information,
they can pretend to be
either of these devices.
Another type of attack
is a replay attack.
A replay attack is
a network attack performed when
a malicious actor intercepts
a data packet in
transit and delays
it or repeats it
at another time.
A delayed packet can cause
connection issues between
target computers,
or a malicious actor may take
a network transmission
that was sent by
an authorized user
and repeat it at
a later time to impersonate
the authorized user.
A smurf attack is
a combination of
a DDoS attack and an
IP spoofing attack.
The attacker sniffs an
authorized user's IP address
and floods it with packets.
This overwhelms the target computer and can
bring down a server or
the entire network.
Now that you've learned about
different kinds of IP spoofing,
let's talk about
how you can protect
the network from this kind of attack.
As you previously learned,
encryption should always be
implemented so that the data
in your network transfers can't
be read by malicious actors.
Firewalls can be configured
to protect against IP spoofing.
IP spoofing makes it seem like
the malicious actor
is an authorized user
by changing the
sender's address of
the data packet to match the
target network's address.
So if a firewall receives a data
packet from the internet
where the sender's IP address
is the same as the
private network,
then the firewall will
deny the transmission
since all the devices
with that IP address
should already be on
the local network.
You can make sure
that your firewalls
configure correctly
by creating a rule to
reject all incoming
traffic that has
the same IP address
as the local network.
That's it for IP spoofing.
You've learned how IP
spoofing is used in
some common attacks
like on-path attacks,
replay attacks,
and smurf attacks.